If we define M = -H and write M = M_{+} - M_{-}, where all elements of
M_{+} and M_{-} are >= 0, the ODE's for the vectors of populations n_{+}
and n_{-} in FCIQMC without annihilation are:

  dn_{+}/dt = M_{+} n_{+} + M_{-} n_{-}
  dn_{-}/dt = M_{+} n_{-} + M_{-} n_{+}

Annihilation is hard to represent exactly in this framework, but at very
low population densities the annihilation rate on a specific determinant
is proportional to the product of the corresponding elements of n_{+}
and n_{-} on that determinant, giving the following rough and ready
representation of the population dynamics including annihilation:

  dn_{+}/dt = M_{+} n_{+} + M_{-} n_{-} - 2 r n_{+} n_{-}
  dn_{-}/dt = M_{+} n_{-} + M_{-} n_{+} - 2 r n_{+} n_{-}

(The annihilation rate constant is called 2r for later convenience.) We
now define the difference p = n_{+} - n{-} and the sum n = n_{+} + n_{-}
of the populations of positive and negative walkers. Adding and
subtracting the above equations, we obtain:

 dp/dt = (M_{+} - M_{-}) p = -H p

and

 dn/dt = (M_{+} + M_{-}) n  - 4 r n_{+} n_{-}
    = (M_{+} + M_{-}) n - r (n^2 - p^2)

In the long time limit, p becomes dominated by the largest eigenvalue d
of M = -H (and hence by the smallest energy eigenvalue E_0 = -d):

   p = v exp( d t ) ,

where v is the ground-state eigenvector of H. Hence, if we define
S = M_{+} + M_{-}, the equation of motion for n becomes

 dn/dt = S n - r n^2 + r v^2 exp( 2 d t )

or, in suffix form

 dn_i/dt = sum_j S_{ij} n_j - r n_i^2 + r exp( 2 d t ) v_i^2 

In the large time limit, it seems reasonable to assume that the vector n
becomes dominated by the component corresponding to the largest
eigenvalue, s, of S. If this is right (I'm not sure), then

    sum_j S_{ij} n_j  ->  s n_i     as t -> infinity

and the equation of motion becomes

    d n_i/dt = s n_i - r n_i^2 + r exp(2 d t) v_i^2

for large enough t. This differential equation is now diagonal in the
determinant index i, so each component evolves according to a separate
ODE.

To investigate the behaviour of solutions of this ODE, the attached C++
program solves

  dx/dt = x - a x^2 + e^{bt}

for the values of a and b chosen in the data file (also attached) with
initial condition x=0 at t=0. As you can see from the plot of the output
(also attached), if b is chosen small, the function x(t) behaves exactly
like the population in FCIQMC. At small t, the x^2 and e^{bt} terms can
be ignored, dx/dt = x, and x rises exponentially. Eventually, however,
the a x^2 term becomes appreciable and the growth slows, reaching a
plateau region when 

  a x^2 \approx x   ->    x \approx 1/a.

Finally, once t gets large enough, the e^{bt} term becomes appreciable
and the population starts rising exponentially again.

This simple theory reproduces everything seen in real FCIQMC runs.
Moreoever, if you increase b, so that the exponential growth term kicks
in earlier, I'm sure you'll see the plateau region disappear.
